docs/proofs/output_alethe.rst, before:

Proof format: Alethe
====================

.. warning::

    This format is experimental on the main branch of cvc5. To use this
    format, the option :ref:`--proof-alethe-experimental
    <lbl-option-proof-alethe-experimental>` must be used, or otherwise
    an exception is thrown.

Using the flag :ref:`proof-format-mode=alethe <lbl-option-proof-format-mode>`,
cvc5 outputs proofs in the `Alethe proof format
<https://verit.loria.fr/documentation/alethe-spec.pdf>`_. Additonally, the
following additional flags are currently required: :ref:`simplification=none
<lbl-option-simplification>`, and :ref:`proof-alethe-experimental <lbl-option-proof-alethe-experimental>`.
The first requirement is due to not yet supporting proofs with non-detailed steps.

The Alethe proof format is a flexible proof format for SMT solvers based on
SMT-LIB.  It includes both coarse- and fine-grained steps and was first
implemented in the veriT solver :cite:`Bouton2009`.  Alethe proofs can be
checked via reconstruction within Isabelle/HOL :cite:`Barbosa2020, Schurr2021`
as well as within Coq, the latter via the SMTCoq plugin :cite:`Armand2011,
Ekici2017`. There is also a high performance Rust proof checker for Alethe,
available `here <https://github.com/ufmg-smite/alethe-proof-checker>`_.

Currently, only the theory of equality with uninterpreted functions, parts of
the theory of arithmetic and parts of the theory of quantifiers are supported in
cvc5's Alethe proofs.

A simple example of cvc5 producing a proof in the Alethe proof format:

.. run-command:: bin/cvc5 --dump-proofs --proof-format-mode=alethe --simplification=none --proof-alethe-experimental ../test/regress/cli/regress0/proofs/qgu-fuzz-1-bool-sat.smt2

Commit message:

[proofs] [alethe] Update doc, remove experimental option (#11210)

docs/proofs/output_alethe.rst, after:

Proof format: Alethe
====================

Using the flag :ref:`proof-format-mode=alethe <lbl-option-proof-format-mode>`,
cvc5 outputs proofs in the `Alethe proof format
<https://verit.gitlabpages.uliege.be/alethe/specification.pdf>`_.

The Alethe proof format is a flexible proof format for SMT solvers based on
SMT-LIB.  It includes both coarse- and fine-grained steps and was first
implemented in the veriT solver :cite:`Bouton2009`.  Alethe proofs can be
checked via reconstruction within Isabelle/HOL :cite:`Barbosa2020, Schurr2021`
as well as within Coq, the latter via the SMTCoq plugin :cite:`Armand2011,
Ekici2017`. There is also a high performance Rust proof checker and elaborator
for Alethe: Carcara, available `here
<https://github.com/ufmg-smite/carcara>`_. For a quick start, the cvc5
repository contains a :cvc5repo:`script <contrib/get-carcara-checker>` to
download and install the Carcara checker's version with full support for cvc5
Alethe proofs, and create scripts for generating proofs with cvc5 and checking
them with Carcara.

Currently, the theories of equality with uninterpreted functions, linear
arithmetic, bit-vectors and parts of the theory of strings (with or without
quantifiers) are supported in cvc5's Alethe proofs.

A simple example of cvc5 producing a proof in the Alethe proof format:

.. run-command:: bin/cvc5 --dump-proofs --proof-format-mode=alethe ../test/regress/cli/regress0/proofs/qgu-fuzz-1-bool-sat.smt2
